# POGENOM
Population genomics from metagenomes

### Usage (minimum input)
POGENOM takes as input a file of the variant call format (VCF). This is generated by mapping one or several metagenome samples against a reference genome with a read aligner and calling variants using a variant caller.POGENOM calculates the nucleotide diversity (𝛑) within each sample. If multiple sample vcf file is used as input, the fixation index (FST) will also be calculated between each pair of samples. If, in addition to the VCF file, an annotation file of the General Feature Format (GFF) is provided as input, gene-wise 𝛑 and FST will also be calculated. If, further, a genetic code file is provided, gene-wise 𝛑 and FST will be calculated also at the amino acid level. Now also non-synonymous to synonymous polymorphism rates (pN/pS) will be calculated for each gene in each sample. POGENOM also calculates it for all samples collectively.

----

### Usage (minimum input)

Either:

`perl pogenom.pl -vcf_file VCF_FILE -o OUTPUT_FILES_PREFIX -genome_size GENOME_SIZE [-h]`

Or:

`perl pogenom.pl -vcf_file VCF_FILE -o OUTPUT_FILES_PREFIX -gff_file GFF_FILE [-h]`



### Positional arguments

`-vcf_file VCF_FILE`            Specify vcf file with data from a single or multiple samples

`-o OUTPUT_FILES_PREFIX`         Specify the prefix of the output file name(s) (overwrites existing files with same names)

`-genome_size GENOME_SIZE`      Specify genome size (in bp; integer). Not required if `-gff_file` is given

`-gff_file GFF_FILE`            Specify gff file. Either this or `-genome_size` must be given.



### Optional arguments

`-min_count MIN_COUNT`        Specify minimum coverage for a locus to be included for the sample

`-min_found MIN_FOUND_IN`     Specify minimum number samples that a locus need to be present in to be included

`-loci_file LOCI_FILE`        Specify file with ids for loci to include

`-subsample SUBSAMPLE`        Specify coverage level at which to subsample

`-h`							To print help message on screen

----

### Citing POGENOM

POGENOM doesn't have a paper yet, meanwhile please cite it like this:

Envgen (2017). POGENOM: population genomics from metagenomes. https://github.com/EnvGen/POGENOM.

